ERRATA.md, before:

# Errata

This document includes errata for the [Activity Streams](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core/) and [Activity Vocabulary](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/) documents.

## Activity Streams

  - None yet reported.

## Activity Vocabulary

  - Example 150 has `latitude` and `longitude` properties with string values.
    The range of these properties is `xsd:float`. A correct example would be:

    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "type": "Place",
      "name": "San Francisco, CA",
      "longitude": 122.4167,
      "latitude": 37.7833
    }
    ```

  - Example 80 has `Image` objects with `width` and `height` properties, which
    are only allowed on `Link` objects. One alternative is to use `Link` objects
    with the correct `height` and `width` as the `url` property for each `Image`
    object.
    
    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "summary": "A simple note",
      "type": "Note",
      "content": "A simple note",
      "icon": [
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "summary": "Note (16x16)",
          "url": {
            "type": "Link",
            "href": "http://example.org/note1.png",
            "width": 16,
            "height": 16
          }
        },
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "summary": "Note (32x32)",
          "url": {
            "type": "Link",
            "href": "http://example.org/note2.png",
            "width": 32,
            "height": 32
          }
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

  - The range of the `units` property is given as an enumerated set of values.
    Due to a formatting error, some of these values are shown with an incorrect
    leading space character. The correct range is:
    
    ```text
    "cm" | "feet" | "inches" | "km" | "m" | "miles" | xsd:anyURI
    ```

  - Example 58 includes a `summary` property on a `Mention` object, which is
    not allowed. A corrected example:
    
    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "type": "Mention",
      "href": "http://example.org/joe",
      "name": "Joe"
    }
    ```

  - Unlike `latitude` and `longitude`, the domain of the `altitude` term is the `Object` type. The `altitude` term should be included in the list of properties of an `Object`. Because `altitude` is primarily documented as a property of a `Place`, publishers should not include `altitude` on objects that are not of type `Place`, and consumers should accept objects with this property that aren't of type `Place`.

  - Example 60, for the `Tombstone` type, is missing the `@context` property. The correct example should be:

    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "type": "OrderedCollection",
      "totalItems": 3,
      "name": "Vacation photos 2016",
      "orderedItems": [
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "id": "http://image.example/1"
        },
        {
          "type": "Tombstone",
          "formerType": "Image",
          "id": "http://image.example/2",
          "deleted": "2016-03-17T00:00:00Z"
        },
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "id": "http://image.example/3"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

  - The domain of the `attributedTo` property is both `Link` and `Object`. `attributedTo` should be included in the list of properties of a `Link`.

  - Example 157 is not valid JSON because the `content` property extends over multiple lines. The correct example is:

    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "name": "A thank-you note",
      "type": "Note",
      "content": "Thank you <a href='http://sally.example.org'>@sally</a> for all your hard work! <a href='http://example.org/tags/givingthanks'>#givingthanks</a>",
      "to": {
        "name": "Sally",
        "type": "Person",
        "id": "http://sally.example.org"
      },
      "tag": {
        "id": "http://example.org/tags/givingthanks",
        "name": "#givingthanks"
      }
    }
    ```
 
  - Example 102 is missing a `type` property on the `Link` value of the `url` property. For clarity, the example should read:

  ```json
  {
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Video",
  "name": "Cool New Movie",
  "duration": "PT2H30M",
  "preview": {
    "type": "Video",
    "name": "Trailer",
    "duration": "PT1M",
    "url": {
      "type": "Link",
      "href": "http://example.org/trailer.mkv",
      "mediaType": "video/mkv"
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Issue #648: overly specific reason for not using relative URLs
Issue #648 points out that the reason listed in Section 2.2 for not using relative URLs is incomplete and inexact. This erratum replaces the term "JSON parser implementations" with the more general and accurate "consumers", which is used elsewhere in the document.

ERRATA.md, after:

# Errata

This document includes errata for the [Activity Streams](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core/) and [Activity Vocabulary](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/) documents.

## Activity Streams

  - Section 2.2 "IRIs and URLs" says that publishers SHOULD NOT generate AS2 documents with relative IRI and URL references because JSON parser implementations may not conserve the base context to resolve relative references. This is overly specific; there are other types of implementations that may also fail to conserve the base context. One correction is to simply remove the reference to JSON parsers and replace it with "consumers": "Relative IRI (and URL) references SHOULD NOT be used within an Activity Streams 2.0 document due to the fact that many consumers are not capable of reliably preserving the base context necessary to properly resolve relative references."

## Activity Vocabulary

  - Example 150 has `latitude` and `longitude` properties with string values.
    The range of these properties is `xsd:float`. A correct example would be:

    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "type": "Place",
      "name": "San Francisco, CA",
      "longitude": 122.4167,
      "latitude": 37.7833
    }
    ```

  - Example 80 has `Image` objects with `width` and `height` properties, which
    are only allowed on `Link` objects. One alternative is to use `Link` objects
    with the correct `height` and `width` as the `url` property for each `Image`
    object.
    
    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "summary": "A simple note",
      "type": "Note",
      "content": "A simple note",
      "icon": [
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "summary": "Note (16x16)",
          "url": {
            "type": "Link",
            "href": "http://example.org/note1.png",
            "width": 16,
            "height": 16
          }
        },
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "summary": "Note (32x32)",
          "url": {
            "type": "Link",
            "href": "http://example.org/note2.png",
            "width": 32,
            "height": 32
          }
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

  - The range of the `units` property is given as an enumerated set of values.
    Due to a formatting error, some of these values are shown with an incorrect
    leading space character. The correct range is:
    
    ```text
    "cm" | "feet" | "inches" | "km" | "m" | "miles" | xsd:anyURI
    ```

  - Example 58 includes a `summary` property on a `Mention` object, which is
    not allowed. A corrected example:
    
    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "type": "Mention",
      "href": "http://example.org/joe",
      "name": "Joe"
    }
    ```

  - Unlike `latitude` and `longitude`, the domain of the `altitude` term is the `Object` type. The `altitude` term should be included in the list of properties of an `Object`. Because `altitude` is primarily documented as a property of a `Place`, publishers should not include `altitude` on objects that are not of type `Place`, and consumers should accept objects with this property that aren't of type `Place`.

  - Example 60, for the `Tombstone` type, is missing the `@context` property. The correct example should be:

    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "type": "OrderedCollection",
      "totalItems": 3,
      "name": "Vacation photos 2016",
      "orderedItems": [
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "id": "http://image.example/1"
        },
        {
          "type": "Tombstone",
          "formerType": "Image",
          "id": "http://image.example/2",
          "deleted": "2016-03-17T00:00:00Z"
        },
        {
          "type": "Image",
          "id": "http://image.example/3"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

  - The domain of the `attributedTo` property is both `Link` and `Object`. `attributedTo` should be included in the list of properties of a `Link`.

  - Example 157 is not valid JSON because the `content` property extends over multiple lines. The correct example is:

    ```json
    {
      "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
      "name": "A thank-you note",
      "type": "Note",
      "content": "Thank you <a href='http://sally.example.org'>@sally</a> for all your hard work! <a href='http://example.org/tags/givingthanks'>#givingthanks</a>",
      "to": {
        "name": "Sally",
        "type": "Person",
        "id": "http://sally.example.org"
      },
      "tag": {
        "id": "http://example.org/tags/givingthanks",
        "name": "#givingthanks"
      }
    }
    ```
 
  - Example 102 is missing a `type` property on the `Link` value of the `url` property. For clarity, the example should read:

  ```json
  {
  "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/activitystreams",
  "type": "Video",
  "name": "Cool New Movie",
  "duration": "PT2H30M",
  "preview": {
    "type": "Video",
    "name": "Trailer",
    "duration": "PT1M",
    "url": {
      "type": "Link",
      "href": "http://example.org/trailer.mkv",
      "mediaType": "video/mkv"
    }
  }
}
```
